Hi, I am Pamela Pairo, Ph.D., Biological Sciences from Argentina. In this presentation, I am
going to show you how to create a multilingual website using blogdown, YouGo, and Netlify.
First of all, why do you need a personal website? Having a personal website is another way to
showcase your CV or resume with styles and gives you the freedom to be creative. By writing
posts, you will practice your communication skills, you can exchange knowledge with colleagues,
and therefore, your networking will be expanded. In my experience, when I came across with
difficulties or doubts, I had able to solve the issues thanks to the posts shared by others.
And finally, the personal website is a platform to connect with the world. For those of us
who aren't native English speakers, it is fundamental to have a multilingual website
in English to disseminate our work to the global community and in our native language
to make our website content more inclusive and accessible for everyone. Let's get started.
We begin creating a new repo in our GitHub account. Then, in RStudio, create a new project
with Contribution, Undownload, Blogdown, and YouGo. You can look at all the themes and
select one on the YouGo website. After that, you will have the default version of the site
in the viewer panel, so it's time to customize. The main files that are part of the website
are shown here. In config.tom is where it's located the global settings for the site and
in config.default folder are the params.toms where you can change the color theme, the
font size of your website, and add your contact details. To change what appears in the navigation
menu bar, it's necessary to edit the menu.tom file. And in language.tom is where you can
change the language setting. And how to make your personal website multilingual? I'm going
to show you an example of the bilingual website, English and Spanish. In the language.tom,
you have to uncomment the lines for a second language to configure your website. Here we
have the information about the English part, for example, the language code, where it's
located the content, and the title. Note that the abbreviations of the languages are predefined,
so if you want a Portuguese website, for example, you need to check which is the correct abbreviation.
Then, in each language, we'll need their own menu.tom file and a subfolder within the content
folder. Finally, choose the default language that the visitors will see when visit your page,
and for making visible that the website is multilingual, check in params.tom that show
is true. When you are done with your edits and you are happy with your website, it's time to
put it online. One way to do this is using Netlify. One of the advantages of deploying
your website through Netlify is that it allows you to have a static site for free and easily.
Basically, it connects to the remote repository on GitHub to deploy. Every change that it makes
on the website, it will be automatically updated after to push to GitHub. It's important that the
Hugo version that you are running locally match with the version that Netlify is going to use to
build your site, and how to do that? Check your local version of Hugo and pick up the Netlify
file to your project root directory and specify the Hugo version. Then, go to the Netlify webpage
and log in with GitHub to select the repo you've been working with lockdown. You will see something
like this but with your information. Go to show advanced and just in case, write the Hugo version,
and finally, you will have your website. In the latest version of lockdown, you can set up the
Hugo version by running this code and tell to Netlify the Hugo version with this function.
If you want more information, here are some blogs that I used in this presentation and
you can find me on my website and on Twitter. Thank you.